I cannot agree with you papa you know I cannot Mr Weston is such a goodhumoured pleasant excellent man that he thoroughly deserves a good wifeand you would not have had Miss Taylor live with us for ever and bear all my odd humours when she might have a house of her own. I do not understand what you mean by success said Mr Knightley Success supposes endeavour Your time has been properly and delicately spent if you have been endeavouring for the last four years to bring about this marriage A worthy employment for a young ladys mind But if which I rather imagine your making the match as you call it means only your planning it your saying to yourself one idle day I think it would be a very good thing for Miss Taylor if Mr Weston were to marry her and saying it again to yourself every now and then afterwards why do you talk of success Where is your merit What are you proud of You made a lucky guess and that is all that can be said. There was a strange rumour in Highbury of all the little Perrys being seen with a slice of Mrs Westons weddingcake in their hands but Mr Woodhouse would never believe it.In addition to his occupation as a wheelwright, Mathias Haydn officiated as sexton of his parish. Both he and his wife were able to sing sufficiently well to increase their scant earnings by singing in church on Sundays and holidays, and at fairs and festivals. They also indulged in music at home, after a rude fashion. I don’t remember it clearly, I know this event had a major impact on my life and affected my later patterns in relationship. My mother’s family had been Quakers and we still used the plain language when speaking to my grandmother saying thee rather than you for the Quakers is an acknowledgement of the god within each person. So, on a deep level, I absorbed the profound respect for spirit and concern for humanity that is woven into the fabric of the Quaker religion, which I feel had a strong influence on me later in my life. When I was fourteen years old I went through an enormous emotional crisis. I was deeply disillusioned and depressed, and basically remained in that state for several years. These practices show us how to accept ourselves, how to relate directly with suffering, how to stop running away from the painful aspects of our lives. They show us how to work openheartedly with life just as it is. When we hear about compassion, it naturally brings up working with others, caring for others. Footpath growled the stranger Ive had enough of footpaths I came down from town to Catley intending to walk across to the junction I started along the road and then some fool directed me to a short cut with the result that I have been blundering about in the dark for the last halfhour My sight isnt very good you know he added
Seems to be a confounded draught he said with another slight shiver did I shut the door properly I wonder He strode across the room and opening the door wide looked out into the dark garden A desire sudden and urgent had come over him to get out into the open air to be on the road and have done with this madness that was knocking at the door of his brain. It was now time to start Hastily cutting off a length of string from his stringboxfor Silas was an orderly man and despised the oddments of string with which many people make shifthe tied it to the dead mans bag and umbrella and slung them from his shoulder Then he folded up the paper of broken glass and slipping it and the spectacles into his pocket picked up the body and threw it over his shoulder Brodski was a small spare man weighing not more than nine stone not a very formidable burden for a big athletic man like Silas.Sorrow camea gentle sorrowbut not at all in the shape of any disagreeable consciousnessMiss Taylor married It was Miss Taylors loss which first brought grief It was on the weddingday of this beloved friend that Emma first sat in mournful thought of any continuance The wedding over and the bridepeople gone her father and herself were left to dine together with no prospect of a third to cheer a long evening Her father composed himself to sleep after dinner as usual and she had then only to sit and think of what she had lost. Of his earliest years but little is known except that, while yet a tender child, he began to manifest the musical instinct that was in him by singing the simple tunes that his father was able to strum on the harp, and by exciting wonder at the correctness of his ear and his keen sense of rhythm. These gifts, however, are by no means rare in children, and the possession of them does not necessarily insure that their possessors shall develop into Haydns and Mozarts. There are whole parts of ourselves that are so unwanted that whenever they begin to come up we run away