I have always had a burning desire to understand how the universe works, what life is all about, and the meaning and purpose for which I am here. In retrospect, I can see that my entire life has been devoted to my search for truth and understanding. I was brought up in a very intellectual, well-educated, non- religious family. My parents were essentially atheists, and very early on, I remember having the attitude that a belief in God was a human fabrication, a fantasy, a superstition created to help people feel better about the totally unexplained, and unexplainable, predicament we seem to find ourselves in. Human existence, or anyother kind of existence, was simply an accident of nature and had no particularly fathomable meaning. I preferred to admit that I didn’t know how we got here or why, rather than to adopt a simplistic explanation merely to gain a sense of security. I believed that truth was rational and anything that couldn’t be proved scientifically didn’t exist. I also felt somewhat condescending toward people who were weak enough to have to make up a god to believe in. The positive side of this upbringing was that I didn’t get a lot of the rigid dogma and deeply negative messages about right and wrong, heaven and hell, and sin that so many people receive in their early religious training. On the other hand, I had no conscious concept or experience of the spiritual dimension of life, and no answers or the questions I had about the meaning and purpose of my life. My parents really wanted a child, and were very loving to me.Unfortunately they were unable to work out their own relationship and were divorced when I was two years old. Although I don’t remember it clearly, I know this event had a major impact on my life and affected my later patterns in relationship. After the divorce, I lived with my mother who never remarried or had any other children. My father did remarry, and I often visited my father and his other family. My mother developed a successful career as a city planner in the days when there were few women in that field. She dealt with the usual challenges of single parenting trying to balance the needs of her child with the demands of her work. Being the only child of a working mother, I developed a strong sense of responsibility and self-sufficiency quite early. My mother is a very adventurous person. She loves to try new things, and for me, she was a great role model of fearlessness and pioneer spirit. She had been one of the first educated American women in her generation to have natural childbirth. I was the first baby her doctor had ever delivered without an anesthetic. I was blessed with a very fortunate birth. My mother loves to explore new places and we traveled a lotwhen I was a child all over the United States, to the West Indies, Mexico, Hawaii, Europe. We also moved frequently whenever my mother changed jobs. Until I was about fifteen, I had never lived in one place longer than two or three years.My mother’s family had been Quakers and we still used the plain language when speaking to my grandmother saying thee rather than you for the Quakers is an acknowledgement of the god within each person. So, on a deep level, I absorbed the profound respect for spirit and concern for humanity that is woven into the fabric of the Quaker religion, which I feel had a strong influence on me later in my life. When I was fourteen years old I went through an enormous emotional crisis. Triggered initially by the collapse of my first romance, it snowballed into a deep and longlasting existential despair. I took a long hard look at life and recognized that there was really no point or   meaning to it. I could see that all the things that were supposed to provide significance in life education, success, relationships, money were in themselves ephemeral, meaningless, and empty. There didn’t seem to be any- thing else to fill the void. I was deeply disillusioned and depressed, and basically remained in that state for several years.


